# Phil-Human-Workshop-
Publication Title-Towards Morbidity Identification Employing Deep Learning and Word Embeddings within Clinical Notes
Abstract-Today,  we  are  seeing  an  ever-increasing  number  of  clinicalnotes that contain clinical results, images, and textual descriptions of pa-tient’s health state. All these data can be analyzed and employed to caternovel services that can help people and domain experts with their com-mon healthcare tasks. However, many technologies such as Deep Learn-ing and tools like Word Embeddings have started to be investigated onlyrecently, and many challenges remain open when it comes to healthcaredomain applications. To address these challenges, we propose the use ofDeep Learning and Word Embeddings for identifying sixteen morbiditytypes  within  textual  descriptions  of  clinical  records. For this purpose, we have used a Deep Learning model based on Bidirectional Long-ShortTerm Memory (LSTM) layers which can exploit state-of-the-art vector representations of data such as Word Embeddings. We have employed pre-trained  Word  Embeddings namely GloVe and Word2Vec,  and  ourown Word Embeddings trained on the target domain. Furthermore, wehave compared the performances of the deep learning approach againstthe traditional tf-idf using Support Vector Machine and Multilayer per-ceptron (our baselines). From the obtained results it seems that the lat-ter outperform the combination of Deep Learning approaches using anyword embeddings. Our preliminary results indicate that there are spe-cific features that make the dataset biased in favour of machine learning approaches.

Keywords:Deep Learning·Natural Language Processing·MorbidityDetection·Word Embeddings·Classification.

This repositry contains the source-code used for our exeripements, to run deep learning and supervised learning althorithms. 
